I've mostly read 2.1, 2.2, and 2.5 given I'm not supposed to read the whole thing at that point. We had discussed the RB SMC bits (and I gave you notes on it) so I'm focusing on what we hadn't really discussed.

You may want to merge SQMC and QMC together, otherwise I expect many repetitions.
There's a good chance you will already have introduced SSMs as part of SMC so why introduce them again in the football case? Just specialize to football straightaway. I also don't think factorial models were introduced in Duffield et al., they apply it to sports there. Chase the correct citation. Lorenzo has a JMLR paper on this too, so it may also be cited somewhere in there. I'd be very surprised if he invented it!
indexes -> indices
latent states of index k are independent -> no they aren't, they are a priori independent, but matches make them dependent.
I think the point of Duffield et al. is less so the form of the SSM than the recursive projection back to independence anyway. You could have the same model but not use their approximation, so I'd recommend you revamp this section a bit to explain what they do inference-wise, what it implies for teams, and how it's unsatifactory from a modelling standpoint because national teams etc create correlations. The purpose of this work is to make do with the approximation and see how results differ; however because of the high dimensionality of the system we put a RB + SQMC procedure in place, allowing to handle the system as if it was of low dimension while retaining exactness, contrarily to them.
"it controls dependence but is not itself the score correlation" -> I don't know if you wrote this or Claude, I've seen more and more people use negative characterisations in scientific text, mostly because of LLMs, but it's also crept into how kids speak and it's terrible practice. Just say what something is, not what it's not, ambiguity is not great in science.
Equations are part of sentences, use punctuation at the end of them. Sometimes you have but it's not consistent.
Once an ancestor is selected, its complete components, is retained and propagated via the OU-process -> I don't understand this sentence
coorediantes
succssive
The 4-dimensional Hilbert ordering is therefore a projected dimension-reduction heuristic rather than an exact application of their transition-sufficiency result -> again zero idea what this means? Similar to the above: negative characterisation needs to be purged. In general, I'm rather certain we fit into the context of C&G dimensionality reduction anyway, although it would need some work to get actual guarantees: the likelihood only depends upon 4 of the components and it shouldn't matter what the transition depends upon if we RB it.
transition-sufficiency -> this is nowhere in the cited paper. Careful with LLM hallucinated terminology... They love making stuff up, especially when it comes to naming things.

So, otherwise, I have been thinking about it a bit more: you will only see the benefit of SQMC during the filtering pass: this is because the effective dimension is very small thanks to the RB, but during the smoothing pass, you are computing full-dimensional trajectories, so you end up losing the benefit of QMC... You can recover it by using a lower number of particles duing filtering in SQMC: say SMC uses 10_000 for filtering, 100 for smoothing, and SQMC uses 100 for both. That should show some benefit. 